Purely picking individual stocks to gain an edge is increasingly difficult, given the wider availability of once-valuation financial information, and the fact that after more than two decades of disruption, it is quite clear that center of gravity has shifted for both economies and markets, with the bulk of the value in markets coming from companies that are very different from those that dominated the 20th century. While much is made of the fact that some of the biggest companies of today's markets (in market capitalization terms) derive their value from intangible assets, we think the bigger difference is that these tech companies are also less capital intensive and more flexible. That flexibility, allowing them to take advantage of opportunities quickly, and scale down rapidly in the face of threats, limits downside and increases upside.

Investors are facing one of the most challenging investing landscapes in history. The shift in economic power to more globalized companies, built on technology and immense user platforms, has made many old-time value investing nostrums useless. Now value investors have to leave their preferred habitat (mostly mature companies with physical assets bases) in the corporate life cycle to find value. But one of the biggest issues with value investing is that it viewed and continues to view uncertainty as something to be avoided as much as possible, and takes the view that they cannot value businesses, where there is too much uncertainty. That view has led investors to focus on mostly mature companies and kept them out of investing in tech companies. 

If investors' views on investing and valuation were formed by reading Ben Graham, and nurtured by listening to Warren Buffett, it is worth remembering the time and the setting for their sage advice. Put simply, the rostrum that when investing in a company, we should focus on the company's management and moats, and pay little or no heed to governments or macroeconomic indicators, may have worked for investors in the United States, in the 1980s, but will not hold up not just in other parts of the world, but even in the US in the 2020s. Globalization and the emergence of a world economy that is no longer centered on the United States has made it an imperative for all investors to think about equity risk premiums, reward we get for investing in stocks. Personally, I have an obsession with risk premiums calculations, and I maintain a global database for estimating and using both country and equity risk premiums: https://rpubs.com/rafael_nicolas/crp

The stock market is the only market where things go on sale and all the customers run out of the store. This is one of the reasons why most money managers underperform as they tend to deploy capital only when the market is going up. As Buffett once said, “the stock market is a device to transfer money from the 'impatient' to the 'patient'.” As rational investors, we must be willing to sell shares at wonderful prices, with the caveat that we do need a higher equity risk premium to buy back wonderful companies at fair prices, but that correction may take time. Risk is in the future, not the past. Yet being an investor is to live at the intersection of story and uncertainty. And we have also learned that if we worry too much about what has happened already, it does more damage to our investments and the portfolio than getting it right. To the degree that worrying about things we do not control is going to hurt us as investors. So, the only rational answer is to control what one can control and avoid wasting limited intellectual bandwidth on things that one has neither control over nor has the ability to estimate.

Thinking about conviction based quality growth investing as a combination of opportunity and danger is both healthy and all encompassing. It also brings some self-evident truths about value investing that we all tend to forget. Value investors are facing one of the most challenging investing landscapes in history. The shift in economic power to more globalized companies, built on AI technologies and immense user platforms, has made old-time value investing very challenging. Now value investors have to leave their preferred habitat (mostly mature companies with physical assets bases) in the corporate life cycle to find value. But one of the biggest issues with value investing is that it has viewed and continues to view uncertainty as something to be avoided as much as possible, and takes the view that they cannot value businesses, where there is too much uncertainty. That view has led investors to focus on mostly mature companies and kept them out of investing in tech. Unfortunately, value investors are born pessimists, and they believe that making bets on the future and/or paying for growth is a sign of weakness. This is, of course, the mirror image of the investor's lament that a tech company cannot be valued. 

The debate about tech valuation is interesting on many dimensions, but one that is worth focusing on is how much growth is worth and what we are paying for it. As Bill Gross recently wrote, "stocks may decline based on disappointing earnings growth, not higher interest rates". But there are some investors who argue that growth is speculative and that it is worth very little or nothing. At the other extreme are those who argue that growth is priceless and that we should therefore be willing to pay for it. Even though both groups seem to be in agreement that valuing growth is pointless (it requires estimates that will be wrong in hindsight), I do believe that it is not growth that we should be paying a premium for, but quality growth, with quality defined as the excess return generated over and above the cost of capital. Essentially I have two questions when investing in a business. First and foremost, where is the company in the capital structure? It is true that some managers and investors like me, in the name of prudence, think that less debt is always better than more debt, and no debt is optimal. And second, what do we think about the company’s excess return on invested capital? Scaling profits to invested capital yields accounting returns, and comparing those returns to costs of funding, we get excess returns, short hand for the value created or destroyed by growth. 

The trickiest part of finding a great stock to own is striking a balance amongst growth, profitability, and reinvestment, while arriving at a plausible story that holds these strings together, to derive value. It is also worth emphasizing that there are lots of possible stories, a smaller subset of plausible stories, and an even smaller set of probable stories. Yes, valuing businesses across time is very labor intensive but there is no real shortcut to compounding investing knowledge. As investors, we focus exclusively on really understanding what we are looking to buy. 

For example, the debate about NVIDIA’s valuation is interesting on many dimensions, but one that is worth focusing on is how much growth is worth, and what investors are paying for it. Luckily, I wrote a series of lectures looking at the limits of growth, the scaling up of growth, the value of growth and how management credibility affects that value (https://www.linkedin.com/posts/rnfc_writing-the-lecture-a-decade-ago-on-what-activity-7100138478469828609-zUqP). With NVIDIA besides the headline growth and fascinating AI narratives, it is more important to understand whether such growth is very profitable (costs/margin, and incremental capex/ROIC) and whether such profitable growth is also durable (competitive edges/economic moat). I warmly recommend reading our NVIDIA Valuation Presentation FY2017-Present, a behemoth weighing in at ~195 slides that sheds insight into our thinking, investment philosophy, conviction, and much more: https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/nvidia-valuation-presentation-rafael-nicolas-fermin-cota

When we buy a stock, we do become part owner of a living organism. The business is a team of people, with certain leadership, values, energy, and personality. In this process, we try to understand what makes it tick rather than the numbers alone. The underlying business, the industry landscape, its strategy, and competitive moats. We also need to look at the strength of the company's main value-drivers (sales growth, operating margin, and capital intensity) and how they are trending. Using a reverse-cash flow model (starts with the current share price), understand what level of performance (value-drivers and FCF) the company must achieve to justify the current price. We then use our information edge and knowledge of the company's value-drivers to develop our own expectations. Are our long-term performance expectations greater or less than what the market is pricing in? Greater = a potential stock to own. As Warren Buffet famously said, “we do not have to be smarter than the rest, we just have to be more disciplined than the rest”.

To help students avoid sprinting into an era where numbers are easier to produce than ever, I have been sharing the optimal capital structure database with excess returns for publicly traded companies across sectors and regions: https://github.com/rnfermincota/academic/tree/main/research/traditional_assets/database. Starting with how the market is pricing risk (both country and equity risk premiums), and then moving on to the cost of equity at each debt ratio, and then estimated the interest coverage ratio, synthetic rating, and cost of debt, taking care to ensure that if the interest expenses exceed the operating income, tax benefits would be lost. These hurdle rates also represent benchmarks (https://rpubs.com/rafael_nicolas/tour_world_economies_businesses) that businesses have to beat to create value. When we invest capital in risky businesses, we need to not just make money, but make enough to cover what we could have earned on investments of equivalent.

Excellent capital allocation skills are VERY rare to find in management teams (https://www.linkedin.com/posts/rnfc_jensen-huang-is-also-an-excellent-capital-activity-7068279741895593984-YV5t/). The two biggest forces that drive corporate financial decision making are me-too-ism and inertia. The former (me-too-ism) leads companies to do what others in their peer group are doing, borrowing when they are, paying dividends because they do and even embarking on acquisitions to be part of the crowd. The latter (inertia) results in firms staying with policies and practices that worked for them in the past, on the presumption that they will continue to work in the future. For example, dividend policy is often the ignored step child of corporate finance, treated either as an obligation that has to be met by companies or as a sign of weaknesses by those who believe that companies exist only to build factories and invest resources. The reality is that dividends are a central reason for investing and unless cash gets returned to investors, and we are willing to expand my notion of dividends to include buybacks, there is no real payoff to investing. That said, the question of how much a company can pay in dividends is affected in most businesses, by investing and financing choices. If equity is a residual claim, as it is often posited to be, dividends should be the end-result of a series of decisions that companies make. If we accept the logic of this process, companies that have substantial cash from operations, access to debt and few investment opportunities should return more cash than companies without these characteristics. 

In practice, the sequencing is neither this clean, nor logical. Dividend policy, more than any other aspect of corporate finance, is governed by inertia (an unwillingness to let go of past policy) and me-too-ism (a desire to be like everyone else in the sector) and as a consequence, it lends itself to dysfunctional behavior. In the first dysfunctional variant, rather than be the final choice in the business sequence, dividends become the first and the dominant part driving a business, with the decision on how much to pay in dividends or buy back in stock made first, and investment and financing decisions tailored to deliver those dividends. Not surprisingly, dividends then act as a drain on firm value, since companies will borrow too much and/or invest too little to maintain them. In a diametrically opposite variant, managers act as if they own the companies they run, are reluctant to let go of cash and return as little as they can to stockholders, while building corporate empires. These companies can afford to pay large dividends, choose not to do so and end up, not surprisingly, with huge cash balances. 

It is worth noting that for both managers and investors, dividends are more than just a return of cash for which companies have no use. Dividends become a divining rod for the company's health, a number that companies stick with through good times and bad and one that has its roots in imitation more than fundamentals. Consequently, companies often get trapped in dividend policies that do not suit them, either paying too much and covering up the deficit with debt and investment cut backs or paying too little and accumulating mountains of cash.

To summarize, to be really good at quality growth investing, we do need to study hard the past in order to understand the present and predict the future well. Warren Buffett, “think about five or 10 companies where you feel familiar with their products. Get annual reports, go through the internet, get all magazine articles that have been written on it for five or 10 years." The key to investing is not assessing how much an industry is going to affect society, or how much it will grow, but rather determining the competitive advantage of any given company and, above all, the durability of that advantage. Moreover, important capital allocation decisions may require unconventional considerations such as avoiding doing dumb things (eg., expensive acquisition, executing buybacks at times of low share price, or exiting businesses that do not create value). Not all senior executives know how to allocate capital effectively. Creating value ought to be an imperative for at least two reasons. The first is competition. A firm that does a poor job of managing its resources will lose in the marketplace to a company that is managed better. The second is consideration of the opportunity cost of capital. Companies have to explicitly acknowledge that all capital has an opportunity cost, the rate of return they could earn on the next best alternative. Capital that fails to earn the cost of capital over the long term destroys value and imperils a company’s prospects for prosperity.

Reference: Value Investing in a New World Order: https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/value-investing-new-world-order-rafael-nicolas-fermin-cota/
