{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
Detecting relative value refers to the process of comparing the potential returns of alternative investments. For this class there will be two pactical implementations of two such relative value models which provide information on over-, respectively underpriced bonds. The first one is a simple model based on traditional yield to maturity analysis and the second one demonstrates the slightly more complex JP Morgan discount function model, an approach of term-structure of interest modeling. Both have been tested in practical applications in bond relative value research but they have here been adapted for trading purposes. In particular, the real time data feeds have been generalized to be independent of a particular data provider. To use them in a \'93real world\'94 setting, students would require links to current price and bond data as well as utility macros to maintain the bond baskets analyzed.\
\
\'97\'97\
\
The term structure of interest rates defines the relationship between interest rates and time. This relationship shows at what rate an investment grows from now to time, t, priced at current market conditions. It defines how borrowers are currently compensating lenders for loans over different time horizons. Graphically, a yield curve or term structure of interest rates specifies the relationship between the yield of bonds of the same credit quality and maturity. If an appropriate yield curve is calculated and specified, it can be used to determine how bonds are trading relative to the rest of the securities in that market. Therefore, the model can be used to identify buying and selling opportunities in the market. The underlying assumption in using a yield curve model to identify trading opportunities is that the market is not completely efficient in pricing bonds. Unfortunately, a continuous term structure of interest rates is not observable in reality because market bond yields are discrete since they only exist for certain maturities. Therefore, a method of interpolation must be developed. There are three components of the interpolation method that define the yield curve model: a pricing function; an approximation function; and an estimation method.\
\
\'97\'97\
\
Historically, the corporate bond market has been the \'93smart money\'94 because it is largely driven by institutional investors rather than retail investors. It tends to be more focused on near-term math than on emotion or long-term projections, and as such tends to front-run the equity market, at least in terms of major transitions. In fixed income there is also a \'93mathematical arms race\'94 where increasingly complex quantitative theories are applied without markedly improving the predictive power of the models. Just because a fancy model is wonderful to behold does not mean we should slavishly use its results without thought of the consequences. As Einstein said, \'93If you are out to describe the truth, leave elegance to the tailor.\'94 It would perhaps be time that research in credit made this requirement a priority for improved models and not a futile chase for the ultimate true model that does not exist. Modeling term structure of credit spreads is a great example where a simple redemption yield based reference curve calibrated frequently can be used to generate a list of cheap, respectively rich bonds. \
}