# Real Assets

Institutional investors have adopted the use of private markets strategies in their portfolios at a rapidly increasing rate in recent years. The markets themselves have grown commensurately to multi-billion size. As the number of listed companies has declined, private markets have become difficult to ignore. In this course I teach some financial models and analytical methods I have developed during ten+ years of experience in real estate and infrastructure modeling.

My experience is that younger analysts find real estate and infrastructure investments difficult to model and struggle to get their arms around the formulations. In this course I provide technical reports, work through the formulas and, for those interested, code to automate some of the calculations. Each teaching module is exceptionally detailed allowing for separate macroeconomic, operational, capital asset and financial assumptions. After all calculations have been run, a summary section outputs results, ratios and charts for the key data required for communicating results. This data can be viewed as an aggregated total under the consolidated section or as individual segments as required by decision makers.

One of the unique aspects of the modeling framework taught is how user friendly and intuitive it is to use. It follows a simple top down approach where students can go through and input the various assumptions for each section as they have the information available. The technical report first gives an explanation of how each index fits into the model as a whole and then gives detailed explanations of all formulas in plain English. Another distinctive aspect is the amount of sensitivity analysis that can be run. The scenario analysis first contains a control panel to regulate the length of the analysis and what will be displayed. After the initial scenario is set out, there are several variables including multipliers and growth rates that the user can input. The student can quickly analyze the results under summary data which will display key metrics and charts for that scenario. This allows for running various feasibility tests in a quick and efficient manner. With the easy to follow technical reports and very intuitive course material, students will be well prepared for buy/sell and buy side job interviews.

Lastly, I created this course partly in service to future analysts and associates who may be interested in real estate and infrastructure financing in general. I always advise students interested in investments to learn some coding and hope a few might be motivated by my work. If they learn to code in a programming language like R or Python, it will open new avenues for their analytical work, will vastly improve their productivity and will protect the future of their career as forces of automation and artificial intelligence rapidly advance in the financial industry. Those not interested in the coding can simply skip the coding and keep using Microsoft Excel.
