The debate about tech valuation is interesting on many dimensions, but one that is worth focusing on is how much growth is worth, and what we are paying for it. As Bill Gross recently wrote “stocks may decline based on disappointing earnings growth, not higher interest rates”. But there are some investors who argue that growth is speculative and that it is worth very little or nothing. At the other extreme are those who argue that growth is priceless and that we should therefore be willing to pay for it. Even though both groups seem to be in agreement that valuing growth is pointless (mainly because it requires estimates that will be wrong in hindsight), I personally believe that it is not growth that we should be paying a premium for but quality growth, with quality defined as the excess return generated over and above the cost of capital (https://github.com/rnfermincota/academic/tree/main/teaching/traditional_assets/database). If the return on capital is greater than the cost of capital, the value of growth will increase as the growth rate increases and the length of the growth period expands. If the return on capital is equal to the cost of capital, neither the growth rate nor the length of the growth period affect value and if the return on capital is lower than the cost of capital, the value will move inversely with the growth rate and the length of the growth period. 

In this repository, I share a comprehensive teaching framework for assessing how much we are paying for growth in a portfolio of stocks. In particular, with the GROWTH_WORTH_FORMULA_FUNC function I trace earnings growth back to two forces: investment in new assets, and improving efficiency on existing assets. Students can use this function to understand the decomposition of growth to examine both historical growth rates in earnings across the same firm (or multiple firms) and the link between value and growth…with some firms adding value as they grow, some staying in place and some destroying value.

References: 

[1] Investment outlook by Bill Gross on "Contrarian Alert": https://williamhgross.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/01/Bill-Gross-Investment-Outlook-1.18.22.pdf

[2] Tweet on "Risky Asset" by Orlando Bravo: https://twitter.com/OrlandoBravoTB/status/1484174538665443328?s=20