Saudi Arabia, applied corporate finance class lectures updated:

[1] aramco Valuation: Saudi state oil producer Aramco reported a decline in net profit to $106.2 billion in 2024, down from $121.3 billion in 2023. The company said it expects total dividends for 2025 of $85.4 billion — a significant fall from 2024′s total of $124.2 billion. Here is the updated valuation for Saudi Aramco using the equally weighted valuation model: Dividend Discount Value, FCFE Value and the FCFF-based Value of Equity. At the wrong price, 124% price ($1.717T) as of value ($1.398T), there is no good time to buy. But at the right price, I would buy shares of Aramco in any setting or at any time. Saudi Aramco is one of the most profitable company in the world, with almost unassailable competitive advantages. Highly recommended to read their latest annual report. https://github.com/rnfermincota/academic/tree/main/teaching/NUS/Data-Engineering/1-Saudi-Aramco/1_Saudi_Aramco_Valuation/2025

[2] Extracting Data from the Saudi Arabia Capital Allocation Database: Lets look at how we can use R to automate the process of extracting relevant data from the Saudi Arabia capital allocation database (https://lnkd.in/ehxBKB8Y). Here I share the updated database of excess returns to equity and the firm for ~290 publicly traded Saudi Arabian companies companies across sectors. Starting with how the market is pricing risk (both country and equity risk premiums), and then moving on to the cost of equity at each debt ratio, and then estimated the interest coverage ratio, synthetic rating, and cost of debt, taking care to ensure that if the interest expenses exceed the operating income, tax benefits would be lost. These hurdle rates also represent benchmarks that businesses have to beat to create value. When we invest capital in risky businesses, we need to not just make money, but make enough to cover what we could have earned on investments of equivalent risk. https://rpubs.com/rafael_nicolas/saudi_arabia_extracting_data