How [Titan](https://titandex.io/) provides outperformance? Historically, DEX aggregators relied on shortest-path algorithms to determine routes between on-chain assets. These approaches leverage log prices and are often stymied by the negative cycles naturally present in the network due to sub-cent arbitrage opportunities. Worse still, when pools have low TVL, prices shift rapidly as the users volume is processed — a dynamic that traditional methods fail to capture directly. To account for these effects, the network graph must be artificially expanded with additional pricing and capacity information, introducing thousands of edges and significantly increasing computational costs. Despite years of iteration, these two challenges — price impact during trade execution and graph bloat from modelling price impact — remain unresolved for shortest-path based methods without introducing heuristics or compromises. Titan addresses these challenges directly with its [Talos algorithm](https://titandex.gitbook.io/titan/codex-of-knowledge/dex-aggregators). Talos departs from traditional pathfinding approaches and instead frames routing as a raw mathematical optimization problem. This allows it to naturally incorporates price impact during optimization, solving for true optimal routes with machine-level precision. As a result, it avoids pool fragmentation, fully utilizes available liquidity, and requires no exclusion of markets — unlocking the best on-chain prices possible. Furthermore, the mathematical underpinnings of Talos can not only detect profitable arbitrage cycles in the network but is capable of generating optimal allocations to fully extract available value, without leaving residual arbitrage behind.

[Watch Chris Chung, Co-Founder Titan](https://youtube.com/shorts/Npewhny0xvU?feature=share)